---
hide:
  - toc
---

# Data protection notice


Robert Bosch GmbH (hereinafter “Bosch”, “We” or “Us”) welcomes you to our
internet pages and mobile applications (together also referred to as “online
offers”). We thank you for your interest in our company and our products.

**1. Bosch respects your privacy**

The protection of your privacy throughout the course of processing personal data
as well as the security of all business data are important concerns to us. We
process personal data that was gathered during your visit of our Online Offers
confidentially and only in accordance with statutory regulations.

Data protection and information security are included in our corporate policy.



**2. Controller**

Robert Bosch GmbH is the controller responsible for the processing of your data;
exceptions are outlined in this data protection notice.

Our contact details are as follows:

Robert Bosch GmbH  
Robert-Bosch-Platz 1  
70839 Gerlingen-Schillerhöhe  
GERMANY

E-mail: <kontakt@bosch.de>  
Telephone: +49 711 400 40990
 

**3. Collection, processing, and usage of personal data**

3.1 · Processed data categories

Communication data (e.g. name, telephone number, e-mail address, address, IP
address) are processed.

3.2 · Principles

Personal data consists of all information related to an identified or
identifiable natural person, this includes, e.g. names, addresses, phone
numbers, email addresses, contractual master data, contract accounting, and
payment data, which is an expression of a person’s identity.

We collect, process, and use personal data (including IP addresses) only when
there is either a statutory legal basis to do so or if you have given your
consent to the processing or use of personal data concerning this matter, e.g.
by means of registration.

3.3 · Processing purposes and legal basis

We as well as the service providers commissioned by us, process your personal
data for the following processing purposes:

*3.3.1 · Provision of these online offers*

- Legal basis: Predominantly, legitimate interest on our part in direct
  marketing as long as this occurs in accordance with data protection and
  competition law.

*3.3.2 · In reply to user inquiries in the framework of a contact form*

- Legal basis: Predominantly, legitimate interest in direct marketing on our
  part and in the enhancement of our products and services, as long as this is
  carried out in compliance with data protection regulations and competition law
  regulations resp. contractual performance resp. consent.

*3.3.3 · To answer user requests within the scope of a chatbot*

- Legal bases: our legitimate interest in improving our products and services;
  obtaining consent

*3.3.4 · Resolving service disruptions as well as for security reasons*

- Legal basis: Fulfillment of our legal obligations within the scope of data
  security and predominantly, legitimate interest in resolving service
  disruptions as well as in the protection of our offers. 

*3.3.5 · Self-promotion and promotion by others as well as market research and
reach analysis done within the scope statutorily permitted or based on consent*

- Legal basis: Consent or predominantly, legitimate interest on our part in
   direct marketing if in accordance with data protection and competition law. 

3.3.6 · Safeguarding and defending our rights

- Legal basis: Legitimate interest on our part in the assertion and defense of
  our rights.

3.4 · Log files

Each time you use the internet, your browser is transmitting certain information
which we store in so-called log files.

We store log files to determine service disruptions and for security reasons
(e.g., to investigate attack attempts) for a period of 7 days and delete them
afterwards. Log files which need to be maintained for evidence purposes are
excluded from deletion until the respective incident is resolved and may, on a
case-by-case basis, be passed on to investigating authorities.

Log files are also used for analysis purposes (without the IP address or without
the complete IP address) see module 3.3.5 “Self-promotion and promotion by
others as well as market research and reach analysis done within the scope
statutorily permitted or based on consent”

In log files, the following information is saved:

- IP address (internet protocol address) of the terminal device used to access
  the online offer;
- Internet address of the website from which the online offer is accessed
  (so-called URL of origin or referrer URL);
- Name of the service provider which was used to access the online offer;
- Name of the files or information accessed;
- Date and time as well as duration of recalling the data;
- Amount of data transferred;
- Operating system and information on the internet browser used, including
  add-ons installed (e.g., Flash Player);
- http status code (e.g., “Request successful” or “File requested not found”).

3.5 · Chatbot

Within the scope of this online offer, we give you the opportunity to learn
about the products and services offered by us by means of a chat. When using the
chat, the chat conversation is recorded. After the chat, it will be deleted soon
thereafter unless the chat is part of a support or service request. In the
latter case, the chat’s content is assigned to your customer account and will be
saved for the purpose of fulfilling the contractual obligations.

3.6 · Children

This online offer is not meant for children under 16 years of age.

3.7 · Data transfer

*3.7.1 · Data transfer to other controllers*

Principally, your personal data is forwarded to other controllers only if
required for the fulfillment of a contractual obligation, or if we ourselves, or
a third party, have a legitimate interest in the data transfer, or if you have
given your consent. Particulars on the legal basis and the recipients or
categories of recipients can be found in the section “Processing purposes and
legal basis” (see no. 3.3).

Additionally, data may be transferred to other controllers when we are obliged
to do so due to statutory regulations or enforceable administrative or judicial
orders.

*3.7.2 · Service providers (general)*

We involve external service providers with tasks such as sales and marketing
services, contract management, payment handling, programming, data hosting, and
hotline services. We have chosen those service providers carefully and monitor
them on a regular basis, especially regarding their diligent handling of and
protection of the data that they store. All service providers are obliged to
maintain confidentiality and to comply with the statutory provisions. Service
providers may also be other Bosch Group companies.

*3.7.3 · Transfer to recipients outside the EEA*

We might transfer personal data to recipients located outside the EEA into
so-called third countries. In such cases, prior to the transfer we ensure that
either the data recipient provides an appropriate level of data protection or
that you have consented to the transfer. You are entitled to receive an overview
of third country recipients and a copy of the specifically agreed-provisions
securing an appropriate level of data protection. For this purpose, please use
the statements made in the “Contact” section (see no. 11).

3.8 · Duration of storage, retention periods

Principally, we store your data for as long as it is necessary to render our
online offers and connected services or for as long as we have a legitimate
interest in storing the data (e.g. we might still have a legitimate interest in
postal mail marketing after fulfillment of our contractual obligations). In all
other cases we delete your personal data with the exception of data we are
obliged to store for the fulfillment of legal obligations (e.g. due to retention
periods under the tax and commercial codes we are obliged to have documents such
as contracts and invoices available for a certain period of time).

 
**4. Usage of cookies**

In the context of our online service, cookies and tracking mechanisms may be
used. Cookies are small text files that may be stored on your device when
visiting our online service. Tracking is possible using different technologies.
In particular, we process information using pixel technology and/or during log
file analysis.

4.1 · Categories

We distinguish between cookies that are mandatorily required for the technical
functions of the online service and such cookies and tracking mechanisms that
are not mandatorily required for the technical function of the online service.

It is generally possible to use the online service without any cookies that
serve non-technical purposes.

*4.1.1 · Technically required cookies*

By technically required cookies we mean cookies without those the technical
provision of the online service cannot be ensured. These include e.g. cookies
that store data to ensure smooth reproduction of video or audio footage.

Such cookies will be deleted when you leave the website.

*4.1.2 · Cookies and tracking mechanisms that are technically not required*

We use marketing cookies and tracking mechanisms. We only use such cookies and
tracking mechanisms if you have given us your prior consent in each case. With
the exception of the cookie that saves the current status of your privacy
settings (selection cookie). This cookie is set based on legitimate interest.

General

By using marketing cookies and tracking mechanisms we and our partners are able
to show you offerings based on your interests, resulting from an analysis of
your user behavior:

- Statistics:  
  By using statistical tools, we measure e.g. the number of your page views.
- Conversion tracking:  
  Our conversion tracking partners place a cookie on your computer (“conversion
  cookie”) if you accessed our website via an advertisement of the respective
  partner. Normally these cookies are no longer valid after 30 days. If you
  visit certain pages of our website and the cookie has not yet expired, we and
  the relevant conversion partner can recognize that a certain user clicked on
  the advertisement and thereby was redirected to our website. This can also be
  done across multiple devices. The information obtained by means of the
  conversion cookie serves the purpose of compiling conversion statistics and
  recording the total number of users who clicked on the respective
  advertisement and were redirected to a website with a conversion tracking tag.

Please note that using the tools might include transfer of your data to
recipients outside of the EEA where there is no adequate level of data
protection pursuant to the GDPR (e.g. the USA). For more details in this respect
please refer to the following description of the individual marketing tools:

- Name: Google Analytics  
  Provider: Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland  
  Function: Analysis of user behavior (page retrievals, number of visitors and
  visits, downloads), creation of pseudonymous user profiles based on
  cross-device information of logged-in Google users (cross-device tracking),
  enrichment of pseudonymous user data with target group-specific information
  provided by Google, retargeting, UX testing, conversion tracking, and
  retargeting in conjunction with Google Ads
- Name: Google Tag Manager  
  Provider: Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4,
  Ireland  
  Function: Administration of website tags via a user interface, integration of
  program codes on our websites
- Name: Google Ads  
  Provider: Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland  
  Function: Placement of advertisements, remarketing, conversion tracking  
  Further information is available at: <https://adssettings.google.com/authenticated>

4.2 · Management of cookies and tracking mechanisms

You can manage your cookie and tracking mechanism settings in the browser and/or
our privacy settings.

Note: The settings you have made refer only to the browser used in each case.

*4.2.1 · Deactivation of all cookies*

If you wish to deactivate all cookies, please deactivate cookies in your browser
settings. Please note that this may affect the functionality of the website.

*4.2.2 · Management of your settings with regard to cookies and tracking mechanisms not required technically*

When visiting our websites, you will be asked in a cookie layer whether you
consent to our using of any marketing cookies or tracking mechanisms,
respectively.

In our privacy settings, you may withdraw the consent with effect for the future
or grant your consent at a later point in time.

 

**5. Plugins**

Our online offers include the use of plugins provided by various social and
other networks.

These plugins are additional features made available by the network providers.

As a default setting, these plugins are inactive.

To enhance the protection of your data when visiting our website, we use a
“2-click solution” to integrate the plugins into the page. This 2-click solution
keeps your visit to our websites from being recorded and possibly evaluated by
the providers of the respective plugins by default.

If you do not wish the providers of the respective networks to receive data
about your use of this online offer and possibly to store or further use this
data, you should not activate the respective plugins.

- Activating plugins  
  You yourself can decide whether you want to interact with the respective
  provider’s network and whether your data is to be transmitted to the
  respective provider or not. Only if you click on the button provided (“Agree”)
  will the respective plugin be activated and integrated into the page, and the
  content of the respective plugin be transmitted from the server of the
  associated provider directly to your browser. A second click will then allow
  you to perform the desired interaction with the network. If you decide to
  activate a plugin, you give us permission to process your data based on your
  consent.

- Collection of data by providers  
  When a plugin is activated, your internet browser establishes a direct
  connection to the respective provider’s servers. Even if you do not have a
  user account with the provider or are not currently logged in to such an
  account, this connection notifies the respective provider that your internet
  browser has called up the corresponding page of our online offer.  
  If you already have a user account with a provider of a network and are
  already logged in when you visit our websites, the operator of the respective
  network may be able to assign the visit to your personal user account as soon
  as you activate plugins. This may enable the provider to analyze your usage
  behavior and store it in a profile.  
  In addition, your IP address and other data about your browser settings will
  be transmitted by your internet browser directly to a server of the respective
  provider and may be stored there.

- Further processing of data by providers  
  Plugins are additional features made available by network providers. We
  therefore have no influence on the further processing of the data that the
  respective network providers’ plugins collect and store.  
  To find out more about the purpose and scope of each provider’s activities to
  collect, further process, and delete data, as well as about your respective
  rights and data protection options, please consult the respective provider’s
  privacy policy.  
  
- Deactivate the plugin  
  If you activate a plugin, the activation applies to the specific plugin only,
  and only for as long as you visit the page into which the plugin is
  integrated.  
  If you no longer wish to use an activated plugin, it can be deactivated by
  reloading the website. Please note that this does not affect data that has
  already been transmitted.  

We use plugins from the providers listed below:

5.1 · YouTube

This online offer uses the YouTube video platform, which is operated by Google
Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland (“YouTube”).
YouTube is a platform that enables the playback of audio and video files.

In order to enhance your data protection when visiting our website, the YouTube
content is integrated into the page in “enhanced privacy mode.”

This means that the video will only be loaded and a connection to YouTube,
including a transmission of log data to YouTube, only established once the
corresponding plugin has been activated. If the plugin is activated, data will
also be transmitted to YouTube and the Google DoubleClick advertising network
contacted. This may trigger further data processing operations over which we
have no control. If the YouTube video is loaded, cookies are also used.

To find out more about the scope and purpose of YouTube’s activities to collect,
further process, and use data, about possible transfers of personal data to
third countries such as the United States, about your rights and the data
protection options available to you, please consult YouTube’s privacy policy.

5.2 · Google Maps

This online offer uses Google Maps map services. Google Maps is operated by
Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland
(“Google”).

Loading the map requires that you activate the corresponding plugin. If you
activate the plugin, data will be transmitted to Google and the Google
DoubleClick advertising network contacted. This may trigger further data
processing operations over which we have no control. If the map is loaded,
cookies are also used.

To find out more about the scope and purpose of Google Maps’ activities to
collect, further process, and use data, about possible transfers of personal
data to third countries such as the United States, about your rights and the
data protection options available to you, please consult Google’s privacy
policy.


**6. Content Delivery Network of Microsoft Azure**

In order to optimize the loading times of our online offer, we use Azure Content
Delivery Network (CDN) Services. Providers are Microsoft Corporation, One
Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052-6399, USA and Microsoft Ireland Operations
Limited, One Microsoft Place, South County Business Park, Leopardstown, Dublin
18 D18, Ireland.

The CDN helps to provide the content of our online offer — especially large
media files such as graphics, text, or scripts — more quickly with the help of a
network of geographically distributed servers, thereby reducing loading times.

The use of the CDN services is based on our overriding legitimate interest
within the meaning of article 6 section 1 lit. f GDPR in the efficient provision
of our online offer.

In context of this processing, personal data is transmitted to the USA. The
transmission is based on European Standard Contractual Clauses in which
Microsoft guarantees to comply with the European data protection law for its
provided services.

Further information on privacy in connection with Microsoft’s CDN service is
available here: <https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/>. Microsoft’s
privacy policy can be found here:
<https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement>.

 
**7. External links**

Our online offers may contain links to internet pages of third parties, in
particular providers who are not related to us. Upon clicking on the link, we
have no influence on the collecting, processing, and use of personal data
possibly transmitted by clicking on the link to the third party (such as the IP
address or the URL of the site on which the link is located) as the conduct of
third parties is naturally beyond our control. We do not assume responsibility
for the processing of personal data by third parties.

 
**8. Security**

Our employees and the companies providing services on our behalf, are obliged to
confidentiality and to compliance with the applicable data protection laws. We
take all necessary technical and organizational measures to ensure an
appropriate level of security and to protect your data that are administrated by
us especially from the risks of unintended or unlawful destruction,
manipulation, loss, change, or unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access.
Our security measures are, pursuant to technological progress, constantly being
improved.

 
**9. User rights**

To enforce your rights, please use the details provided in the “Contact” section
(see no. 11). In doing so, please ensure that an unambiguous identification of
your person is possible.

9.1 · Right to information and access

You have the right to obtain confirmation from us about whether or not your
personal data is being processed, and, if this is the case, access to your
personal data.

9.2 · Right to correction and deletion

You have the right to obtain the rectification of inaccurate personal data. As
far as statutory requirements are fulfilled, you have the right to obtain the
completion or deletion of your data.

This does not apply to data which is necessary for billing or accounting
purposes or which is subject to a statutory retention period. If access to such
data is not required, however, its processing is restricted (see the following).

9.3 · Restriction of processing

As far as statutory requirements are fulfilled you have the right to demand for
restriction of the processing of your data.

9.4 · Data portability

As far as statutory requirements are fulfilled you may request to receive data
that you have provided to us in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable
format or – if technically feasible – that we transfer those data to a third
party.

9.5 · Right of objection

*9.5.1 · Objection to direct marketing*

Additionally, you may object to the processing of your personal data for direct
marketing purposes at any time. Please take into account that due to
organizational reasons, there might be an overlap between your objection and the
usage of your data within the scope of a campaign which is already running.

*9.5.2 · Objection to data processing based on the legal basis of “legitimate interest”*

In addition, you have the right to object to the processing of your personal
data at any time, insofar as this is based on “legitimate interest”. We will
then terminate the processing of your data, unless we demonstrate compelling
legitimate grounds according to legal requirements which override your rights.

9.6 · Withdrawal of consent

In case you consented to the processing of your data, you have the right to
revoke this consent at any time with effect for the future. The lawfulness of
data processing prior to your withdrawal remains unchanged.

9.7 · Right to lodge complaint with supervisory authority

You have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. You can
appeal to the supervisory authority which is responsible for your place of
residence or your state of residency or to the supervisory authority responsible
for us. This is:

State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

Address:

Lautenschlagerstraße 20  
70173 Stuttgart  
GERMANY

Postal address:

Postfach 10 29 32  
70025 Stuttgart  
GERMANY

Telephone: +49 711 6155 41-0  
Fax: +49 711 6155 41-15  
e-mail to: <poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de>

 

**10. Change of the data protection notice**

We reserve the right to change our security and data protection measures. In
such cases, we will amend our data protection notice accordingly. Please,
therefore, notice the current version of our data protection notice, as this is
subject to changes.

 
**11. Contact**

If you wish to contact us, please find us at the address stated in the
“Controller” section (see no. 2).

To assert your rights please use the following link:
<https://request.privacy-bosch.com/entity/RB>.

To notify data protection incidents please use the following link:
<https://www.bkms-system.net/bosch-dataprotection>.

For suggestions and complaints regarding the processing of your personal data we
recommend that you contact our data protection officer:

Data Protection Officer  
Information Security and Privacy (C/ISP)  
Robert Bosch GmbH  
Postfach 30 02 20  
70442 Stuttgart  
GERMANY

or

e-mail to: <DPO@bosch.com>


Effective date: 04.01.2023
